---
layout: book
date: 2021-08-05
olid: 
isbn: 9780141987392
title: Elastic
cover: elastic.jpg
stitle: The power of flexible thinking
author: Leonard Mlodinow
year: 2019
category:
    - Popular Science
tags: 
    - brain
    - neuroscience
    - elastic thinking


toc: true
toc_label: "What's in:"
toc_sticky: "true"

last_modified_at: 2021-08-05
---

## When I read it
Early august 2021 (still going at the time of writing).

## Why I picked it up
Sunday browsing at local Waterstones :-)
I am getting interested in how exactly (or better, roughly) the brain machine works, mostly the physics part with regards to the network of communications inside the brain, what talks to what, and by which means (electochemical signal... but what are they).
This book is generally about something else but, Mlodinow being Mlodinow, there are a few chapters on the topics which I find enlighting and greatly explained. See below.


## Interesting bits

### What is thought
### The world inside your brain
#### Hierarchy of the brain
Cortex -> 2 Hemispheres -> 4 Lobes -> Frontal Lobe
Only mammals have prefontal cortex
Lateral prefrontal cortex is present only in Primates
### Thinking when you are not thinking
### Elastic thinking as reaction to change
Top-down thinking: analytical / deductive
Bottom-up: synthetic / inductive
Collective (automatic) thinking


## Quotes

## Inspiration & Next

This is a good companion to <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/the-brain">The Brain </a> by David Eagleman, which is the first thing read about brain/physics/neuroscience.
I was planning on reading further and look at Pinker - not convinced yet - probably "The language instict".

With Mlodinow, <em>The Drunkard Walk</em> is on the horizon, but I first want to get more knowledgeable on the "fine tuning" idea.
Also, his memoir of Steven Hawking is in the list.

Few mentions of Thomas Kuhn and his <em>The Structure of Scientific Revolutions</em> make me fancy to pick it up again. We'll see.